Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course on Tableau. In the previous
tutorial we calculate the sales per
capita and we've pretty much already
completed this analysis. So we looked at
this chart and we were able to derive
that from two stand  points Victoria is
the better state to consider for the
expansion and all in all our analysis is
ready to go and ready to be presented
but today we will do one quick thing too
is a quick tutorial to introduce one
more tool that is available for you in
Tableau and that will help us make this
analysis a bit prettier in a sense of
for when we're presenting, so that it's
it's a bit more insightful so just add
that finishing touch to our analysis. So
if we're going to analytics over here
the tool we're going to be talking about
is called the forecast over here and in
order to apply the forecast, What we're
going to do is we're going to take
forecast and we going to drag it onto
the chart and there we go what you can
see is on the right,
some new bars have appeared and they are
actually for future dates, so for dates
not present data set so there's May 2016,
August 2016, December 2016, so as you can
see it's these days haven't even
occurred yet but Tableau can already
predict or hence the word forecast what
the probable sales are going to be or
the sales per capita in this case are
going to be in those months for each of
these states and how does that work? How
does Tableau predict? Well Tableau is
looking at two things, it's looking at
the trend over here, which is we've
already got highlighted or outlined with
this trend line and it's also looking at
seasonality. So this is a great example
where seasonality is playing a huge role.
So as we discussed,
the peaks are in December when but
people are buying a lot for Christmas,
New Year's and the trolls are in
February, when people are paying off the
credit cards. So Tableau is able to look
at this information or look at these
graphs and pick out these seasonal
effects and apply them to the forecast
so not only is a trend intact. So it's
it's taking a trend into account to see
in which direction the sales per capita
going to go but also you can see that
here in December there's a peek, here in
December's the peak and the troll falls
in February so the seasonal effects are
also taken into account and in order to
control this forecast, all you have to do
is right click and go to forecast. You
see this arrow over here, you can see the
arrow over here as well and you can see
the arrow over here. By the way, this color
has been added automatically so that the
forecast is a bit more pale than the
main chart. So we're going to forecast if
you want to take the forecast off you
just uncheck show forecast,
let's go into forecast options. So here
you've got some controls that you some
flexibility around, what you want to see
with the forecast. So automatic, it's
telling us,
so this is the forecastle length it's set to
automatic now Tableau picks an automatic
range where how long, how far ahead was
forecast you can change that if you want
to forecast exactly certain period of
time so one year in this case 12 months
then you just say exactly or you can say
two years or if you go up it goes in
different increments, so it can be three,
if you want you can specify 2, specify
22 if you like.
So Tableau will forecast it for you and
now you can see that the further you go
the greater this shaded area becomes
well that's shaded area is actually the
prediction interval which you can see
over here so if I uncheck that will go
away right so there's no prediction
interval and what it's telling us is
that based on the information that Tableau
has gathered from the existing data
source or existing data set, there is a
95% chance that all of,
so if there is some discrepancies so if
the value is not exactly what
is forecasted to be, then there's a
95% chance that the
value will still be within the shaded
area and naturally the further you go
away from today's date the harder it is
to forecast so the shaded area expands
and for instance you can see here that
the shaded area expands greater. So that
means there is less certainty where
exactly the estimate although the value
of the actual value will fall but
Tableau predicting and 95%
chance that will fall within the
shaded area. Which is  pretty
pretty good. Now we can change this
prediction interval if we want a so
let's say for example if we say
90% right? So if we want a
90% confidence instead of
95% confidence,
what's a 90% confidence? This
will reduce our shaded interval right or
if we want a 99% confidence so
we want to know with a lot of certainty
where we can expect the value the actual
values fall we set 99 and as you can see
the shaded area increases a lot, So but
now there's a more higher chance because
the area is greater. Now there's a higher
chance that the values will actually
fall within that chair. So that's how the
prediction interval works you can switch
off the field like to see it and the
difference between these two is that
this is 22 years exactly. This is until
one year meaning it kind of like
finishes off this year so as you can see
it is not 12 months here. It just goes
all the way to December or if you say
three years in this case it will
take you to the third December, so it's
it's,  it's convenient way of finalizing
periods instead of going exactly 12
months going the remaining 12 remaining
months to the end of the year plus the
certain number of years.
You can also change this to a different
measure here if you like.
What else? So aggregate by so this is you
can use this control if you want to
change the level of aggregation in this
case where our visualizations aggregate
two months and obviously Tableau has
picked
the automatic aggregation as months as
well, if in your data for instance you
have daily data but your visualization
is aggregated to the monthly level then
you can either calculate the forecast at
the monthly level like your
visualization is or you can keep the
visualization at the monthly level, but
tell Tableau to look at the daily
data to create the forecast. So
sometimes you might be able to achieve
more accuracy by doing that or you might
be able to achieve other goals by
changing aggregation, but in our case, our
data is monthly and we want to keep
it monthly for the forecast as well so
we're going to keep that. Ignore lost
allows you to ignore the last couple of
months if you don't want them to
participate in your forecast and they're
actually taken out of the bills
visualization, so if I take changes to 0
you'll see that new bar has appeared and
that is that last month that we had in
our data set and in our case we don't
want to ignore any months because we
know that any data that we're using is
from the ABS or Australian Bureau of
Statistics and therefore it's definitely
final. It's not like it is actually
published for delays the spend with the
purpose that we have to wait for the
data to be final before you can get it
but sometimes in some cases you might be
dealing with data that is not final that
you know this month this last month is
hasn't been finished, it hasn't finished yet,
and the data will change. So you
don't want to include in your forecast.
So that's why Tableau defaults to one.
Sometimes it might even be a couple of
months. It might be 12 months that are
not final so if they're like concerned I
think it click center so let me go back
in there so maybe some sort of financial
statements that haven't been finalized
or something that is still going to be
reviewed and might be change you might
want to omit a couple of months. So in
our case we don't want to omit anything
so we're going to say zero. Let's remain
zeros all right fill me, fill in missing
values with zeros
makes sense right so if there's some
missing values in your observations and
I'll just put zeros in there.
Forecast model, so this is your main
control for which model is used by
Tableau to drive its forecast, so you can
say automatic, automatic without
seasonality. As you can see seasonality
is gone and Tableau just looks at the
trend which happens to be the same as
the trend that we've created over here
so it's just basically just completely
ignoring these seasonal effects and in
retail sales that's and that's not a
good choice and finally you've got
custom here. So you can specify your own
so there's two options you can say your
trend can be additive and your season
can be multiplicative or both can be
additive and so on if you want to find
out more information about the
difference between an additive and
multiplicative, just click this button over
here and you'll be taken to a page
on the Tableau website which will allow
you to read up about the different types
of trends and actually they're quite
useful over here if you really want to
get into the nitty-gritty of how
forecasting works in Tableau, but
otherwise normally automatic should be
sufficient to get some preliminary or
all general overview of what the trends
and what the forecast look like. So
there we go, that's how you use the
forecast options.
We're going to leave the settings as
they are now. We're going to click ok and
what does what this gives us is it gives
us some kind of interest something
interesting to talk about during our
presentation. So it allows us not only
to show the actual data but say that
alright so we're saying that Victoria is
the industry that is most favorable to
go and look for an expansion or to
create an expansion in and we can
actually already without any
statistical effort on our behalf. We can
predict what the sales per capita, how
much people, how much per person people
per month are going to be spending on
our another price are in this industry.
So we can really add a prediction to our
final presentation which is always a
plus it is always interesting to talk
about it was always something that
attracts attention of people that you're
presenting to. So there we go, that's how you
use a forecasting in Tableau and this
brings us to the end of today's tutorial.
I look forward to seeing you next time
and until then, happy analyzing!